**Description**
Large readonly storage solutions that contains data(sets) from previous projects. This repository contains raw data as well as curated data(sets) for future reference of re-use in new projects. This repository is located in the datacenter of Deltares on the campus.

&nbsp;

**When to use**
When projects are finished or closed the remaining data of the project is moved to the online archive. This is an automated process. Project leaders will be notified in due time when the data is moved. For re-using data it is possible to make a copy to an active storage device, but we recommend a readonly mount to the archive location. 

&nbsp;

**How to use**
It is not needed to manually intervene in this automated process. However, when specific data should be archived a process is available via [Topdesk]( https://deltares.topdesk.net/tas/public/ssp/content/serviceflow?unid=29ec30766e4d496ab387ea984c0767d8).

&nbsp;

**How to get started**
If you want to access archived data there are several  methods available that may suit your needs:
	- UNC: \\c-archive001.directory.intra\archivedprojects\<projectnumber>
	- NFS: /p/archivedprojects/<projectnumber>
	- Windows: P:\archivedprojects\<projectnumber>

&nbsp;

**Limitations**
This repository consists of petabytes of capacity. This is not inexhaustible and retaining unvaluable data(sets) is not recommended. When the 10 years retention time has exceeded, data is discarded. Another version of the data exists on tape in a vault at a distance from the Deltares campus. To restore data from tape a process is available here in [Topdesk]( https://deltares.topdesk.net/tas/public/ssp/content/serviceflow?unid=c1512f78ca54459c8f27539133275626).

&nbsp;

The data in this repository is only internally accesible. Sharing data is not possible with external parties. 

&nbsp;

**Confidentiality classification**
This solution may store data with _default_ confidentiality classification level: __internal__. For demotion of the confidentiality classification level, it is mandatory to move the data to another, more suitable device.

&nbsp;

**TRL**
HIGH
