**Description**

SURF Research Drive is a cloud storage service that is available to Deltares, offering Deltares employees an easy way to store, synchronize and share files in the secure and reliable SURF community cloud. SURF Research Drive is a data sharing service with a specific focus on the sharing of research data.

&nbsp;

**Costs**
€ 120 per Tb/month. This is to ratio. When using 500 Gb cost is € 60 p.m. The costs are billed to the project each month.

&nbsp;

**When to use**

A cloud service primarily for sharing documents with institutions, universities, and other parties that we need to co-create with.

&nbsp;

**How to use**

Access may be via SURFconext using your institutional account, SURFsara CUA accounts or local Research Drive accounts.

&nbsp;

**How to get started**

Contact the Data Steward team via [email](mailto:datastewards@deltares.nl)

&nbsp;

**Limitations**

Data is stored within European Economic Space under control of Surf. Deltares does not make backups of files stores in SURFdrive. Total storage capacity is limited to 16 TB. If more space is needed within the same specifications, migration of the entire solution is needed to another platform within Surf. This will increase the costs of our agreement significantly. 

&nbsp;

**Confidentiality classification**

This solution may store data with _default_ confidentiality classification level: __confidential__. For demotion of the confidentiality classification level, it is mandatory to move the data to another, more suitable device.

&nbsp;

**TRL**

High. See [LINK](/storagefinder/trl) for more information on Technology Readiness Levels (TRL).
