**Description**

Public cloud storage services refer to a broad range of data storage services provided by public cloud vendors like AWS (Amazon) and Azure (Microsoft). These services typically operate on remote servers maintained by third-party providers, offering users the ability to store various types of data.

&nbsp;

**Costs**
*Amazon Web Services (AWS)* 

€ 25 Tb/m   - Location Ireland (EU-region) 

(Remark: Currently there is no data egress cost associated with S3 due to an agreement with Surf. Costs are an estimation, your milage may vary!) 

&nbsp;

*Google Cloud Services* 

€ 140 Tb/m   - Location EU-region 

(Remark: High data egress costs associated with this service. Costs are an estimation, your milage may vary!) 

&nbsp;

**When to use**

Cloud storage services can be leveraged in situations where you want to use computational facilities that public cloud providers offer and you need data closer to the compute infrastructure. In this case you can leverage the benefits of public cloud providers regarding scalability, availability and flexibility (regarding different storage services). Storage services include, but are not limited to, object storage, block storage, relational and non-relational database services etc, etc.

&nbsp;

**How to use**

Once you have access to your AWS account or Azure subscription you can leverage different storage services. Cloud services mostly use the pay as you go method. When requesting an account, you will have to provide a project number for billing purposes.

&nbsp;

**How to get started**

Request a cloud account via [Topdesk](https://deltares.topdesk.net).

[Access](https://deltares.awsapps.com/start#/) to AWS accounts.

[Access](https://portal.azure.com/) to Azure subscriptions.

Getting started with AWS Cloud Storage by reading the [whitepaper.](https://publicwiki.deltares.nl/display/FAIR/Getting+started+with+AWS+Cloud+Storage)

&nbsp;

**Limitations**

Data is stored in Amazon or Microsoft data centers. You can choose the location in different regions. This means that data can be stored outside the European Economic Space if you chose regions outside the European Union. Deltares does not make backups of files stored in Cloud Storage.

&nbsp;

**Confidentiality classification**

This solution may store data with _default_ confidentiality classification level: __confidential__. For demotion of the confidentiality classification level, it is mandatory to move the data to another, more suitable device.

&nbsp;

**TRL**

HIGH. See [LINK](/storage-finder/trl)  for more information on Technology Readiness Levels (TRL).
